Craniofacial Anatomy
Cranium Bones (8):** The cranium consists of eight bones that protect the brain.
Notable bones include the frontal bone (forehead) and the occipital bone
(back of the skull), along with the parietal and temporal bones.
Facial Bones (14):** The facial skeleton includes fourteen bones that shape the face and support the oral cavity.
Key bones are the maxilla (upper jaw), mandible (lower jaw), zygomatic
(cheekbones), nasal bones (bridge of the nose), and palatine bones (hard
palate).
Temporomandibular Joint (TMJ):
Functions:** This joint connects the mandible to the skull, enabling essential jaw movements for chewing, speaking, and facial gestures.
Disorders (TMDs):** Temporomandibular disorders can occur due to stress, arthritis, or bite misalignment.
Symptoms often include jaw pain, headaches, and clicking sounds.
Treatment may involve physical therapy, dental care, and stress relief strategies.